>> Richard Feldman: All right so
the first one is we're going to be
sending stuff from Elm to JavaScript.
So to do this we've already added our port
module up at the top here which means that
we are now allowed to use
ports in this module.
So we're gonna say port and again we have
to make sure that our port names match
up with what we're doing
on the JavaScript side.
So because on the JavaScript side we are
subscribing to a stored session that means
our port on the own side also
needs to be called Store session.
So a store session is going to have
a type that pretty much matches this
one right here conveniently.
So it's gonna accept a maybe string and
then it's gonna return a command message.
Now ordinarily this would be where we
implement the body of this if it were
a normal function.
But this is a port which means that we
don't actually need to do anything else.
Elm's just generate the implementation for
us.
So here, inside this function, which
is being called elsewhere in the code,
all we're gonna do is we're just going
to handoff directly to the port.
So we're gonna say storeSession
maybeAuthenticationToken, and that's it.
So that should compile, oops,
we wanna be pack in part9.
Okay, that compiled.
And so we will see if it actually works.
I guess we should demonstrate
the lack of it working.
Actually now with half of it implemented
it's going to partially work so maybe not.
We'll just come back and
see the entire thing work momentarily.
Okay, so that's the command side and
then on the subscription side we're going
to receive session from JavaScript.
This is going to give us
a function which takes a value.
Now this value type
refers to a Json value,
which is to say it's in Json
that we have not yet decoded.
It's not in the string form but rather
it's in sort of a raw Java Script object
that needs to be decoded before we
can do something useful with it.
But at this point it's
just sort of undecoded and
something that's just
passing through our program.
So in order to write a port for
this, we're going to use a similar
tactic to what we did last time.
We're gonna again go make sure that we
use the same name as what we did in
JavaScript, which is to say on session
change and then it's going to take as its
first argument a function that converts
this incoming value to a message and
then returns a sub message.
So I can say on session
change passing to message and
that should compile no problem.
No, it did not?
Right [LAUGH], I can't just put
a type definition and have it work.
I actually have to use the port keyword.
Otherwise, it just looks like I'm just
writing a weird function that I didn't
actually define.
Okay, thanks compiler.
So, based on that, I should now,
theoretically, be able to sign out,
sign up for a new account.
And actually,
let's put some console logs in here so
we can actually see what's going
on as we're doing this stuff.
So inside here, inside storage session,
I'm going to say console.log
got a new session.
A new session and then when we actually
set the session, in other words this
is going to be sent into Elm through
a port, we can say session changed.
>> Richard Feldman: And I don't need to
recompile it because that's just raw HTML.
Got this email and this username.
>> Richard Feldman: Have
an extremely secure
password because not even I know it.
>> Richard Feldman: You can zoom it
a little bit so we can see that.
By the way this is a little
warning compiled in DEV mode.
Follows advice for a better performance
and smaller assets, which is basically
tell us here is how you can enable
the optimize flag to get better assets.
Okay, sure enough,
we did in fact get a new session,
which has some incredibly
readable info here.
And the session was changed,
which led us to being logged in.
Excellent, and
putting those things together, we now have
successfully communicated from Elm to
JavaScript, and from JavaScript to Elm.
And that's all there is to it.
Questions?
>> Speaker 2: So
the port takes a signature, is that right?
>> Richard Feldman: Yes,
the port keyword, yes.
It does expect only a signature, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: That is odd for sure.
>> Richard Feldman: That is odd for sure.
Yeah, I mean essentially
it's code generation, right?
It's the compiler saying, well if there's
only one possible implementation for
any given type which is I'm gonna
send that thing to JavaScript so
it's as I'm just gonna implement it for
you.
One other note which is just sort of
outside the scope of this workshop,
there is one other way to do JavaScript
interact with Elm which is through custom
elements which are part of
the web components spec.
We're not gonna get into
exactly how to do that but
Luke Westby gave an awesome talk
on how to do this at Elm Europe.
Okay, walks through the steps to do it.
Basically that's a use case where you
want to specifically embed some piece
of JavaScript inside your view.
You have a third party widget or something
like that, like a date picker or what
have you and you want to just to be able
to drop it in the middle of your view.
Custom elements are a way
that you can do that.
So, not something we're gonna cover here
but if you're curious about that and
that sounds like it fits your use case I
highly recommend checking out his talk
which we will link to.